Hi guys, welcome back.
So in this lecture we're going to look at some of the
options out there for creating an Instagram bot.
Now, there are a lot of them, I'm just going to say that upfront,
I wouldn't be surprised if there's 30 or 40 of them out there.
They all kind of do the same thing,
there's just a couple different tweaks
and different features you might see.
Remember I talked about the Venn diagram
from hell with Instagram features?
Well, some of these bots will charge more because
they let you do some of the features that we can do
in like Iconosquare or Buffer or Latergram, and then
other ones just claim to be able to do the interactions,
the follows and unfollows, faster.
Now, whether or not that's actually true,
I don't actually know, I don't think anybody really knows.
My inclination is to say no.
However, there are services out
there that are more conservative.
That is true.
Some of them will actually say that
"We don't do the max following,
we try to keep it in the safe zone."
So that's kind of up to you, it just really
depends on your risk tolerance.
Are you gonna get banned for using these?
No, because seriously, 60-80% of influencers
on Instagram use these things.
Now, there used to be a tool called Mass Planner, and
that was the most popular, that eventually got banned
because they just got a little too aggressive with how
they were following and unfollowing and doing
all their interactions.
That was a weird kind of program that ran on your
desktop, and you could clone it and do all sorts of
this crazy stuff to it.
So that's a thing of the past.
Now, for us, we need to look at what is still out there,
and so I'm going to start with Instavast. Now, Instavast,
it's common, it's well-known, people use it,
it's very easy to use,
and the biggest point I'm going to point out with
these guys is that they're probably the cheapest. I
think there's a couple places that are similar, but
they only charge you $10/month per account, and
that is pretty much the baseline. Then they
want to charge you more for other things,
but those are things that you can get in Iconosquare
if you want, even I think Buffer has added a lot of
these, like the comment tracking.
For the most part, it's pretty simple.
You know, it has the ability to do things like comments,
and it's up to you if you want to do that, it has
the ability to track hashtags and competitors.
You're going to hear me say this over and over again,
because they all kind of have the same thing.
One thing that's nice about them is
you don't have to download them.
That is actually common with some of these.
You have to download it on your
computer and then run it.
And so if you close your computer, it stops running,
which is actually a problem. We'll actually explore
a tool called Jarvee in a later lecture,
and what we have to do is put it on
a virtual private server to make it run,
so that I don't have to use a dedicated computer. An
extra bonus I think is that they have some like hashtag
generators, and this feature prevents shadow
ban. Shadow ban actually is a problem,
so if you keep using the same hashtags over and over
and over again, you can run into problems with that.
So what a shadow ban is is when Instagram stops
showing your posts at all and you just don't know.
In other accounts, that's actually called ghosting, FYI.
OK.
So this is the cheapest, it's kind of the
most basic, but if that's all you want,
this one's a good option.
Now, here's another one that's also cheap, that's Combin.
I don't really know how to pronounce it,
but this one runs on your computer.
It's a little better put together.
You can do things like check out
media based on a hashtag,
you can do some hashtag research.
They're $10/month as well,
but their big thing is they don't really press it
when it comes to your daily interactions.
You know, the limit is like 400-500, depending
on what year you're watching this.
They don't try to even get up there.
So this one is great if you're wanting to use a bot, but
you don't want to go crazy with it.
Here's one called Social Grow, kind of the
same situation as the other ones,
they're a little bit more expensive.
They're $14 per week,
and this thing drives me nuts, when they do this
standard growth speed and fast growth speed.
Well, with Instavast, for instance, it just has the max speed.
There's no other speed settings.
So this has some interesting tools,
but for the most part, I don't know.
Not really crazy about it.
Remember Foundr? We kind of
refer to his account quite a bit.
This is what he uses.
This one is a little unique in that it has a mobile app
that you can use to change and update your stuff.
Usually with bots, you just set it and forget it.
I mean, sometimes you go back and tweak it, but it's not
really something that's going to take a lot of attention.
Next one worth looking at is called Social Flight
and they're getting a little bit more expensive,
so they're $36/month.
Now, with these guys, they try to max out your
follows, but they also try to give you chat support.
So that's kind of the extra angle.
So it's a bot, but you can also constantly talk to them about
optimizing it, and they can do some of the work for you.
Keyword being "some." Okay,
so they're pretty common and pretty popular.
Now, here's Instamacro, and this is where we really start
stepping up the scale. Instamacro is something like $50/month.
But that's because their package comes with a lot more.
OK.
So it's $60 for 30 days.
Now, if you buy an advanced, you can drop it
down to about $30/month, but you're never really
going to get it below that.
So with them, they just have a lot more features.
And generally, my suggestion with this one is that try
this after you have a lot of experience with Instagram,
you kind of know what you're doing, because
this one is not the most obvious one to use.
This one just has a lot of features in it and a lot of kind
of weird counter-intuitive ways about doing things.
Now, if you're an expert on Instagram, then you can
actually squeeze a lot of juice out of their system.
But for you guys, especially if you're new, this
is not something I generally recommend.
Now, the last one we're going to look at is called Boostio,
and they're on the other end of the spectrum.
So Instavast is the simplest and the cheapest.
Well, these guys are the most
expensive and the most complicated.
Now, they justify the price,
so your basic is that,
and then your $150 is right there.
They justify this because they give you scheduling
and they also act more like an agency.
So they actually schedule times when you can talk
to virtual assistants, they give you a virtual assistant
who manages your tasks for you,
checks in on them, gives you updates etc.
So if that's something you want, if you want help with
optimization, you want someone looking over it,
then this is also an option, just keep
in mind it's kind of expensive,
especially if you start getting more accounts
and you start getting up into the $150 range.
What is the benefit of having someone
watching over this process?
Honestly, I don't know.
There's a benefit to them checking in to see who's
following back and what hashtags are getting the most
engaged people for you,
that's a benefit, but for the most part, they don't
need to check to make sure that your follows and
unfollows went through.
That's generally something that a robot does fine.
All right, guys, so those are some options, check them
out, make a decision for yourself. In the follow
alongs, we're probably going to use Instavast and then
we'll use an account system called Jarvee later
on when we start expanding.
But personally, I would probably use Instavast
or Combin. Instamacro maybe, it just depends.
I might try that later on.
So if you guys have experiences with these, you can post
in the Slack, share it with everybody else. Otherwise,
I will see you in the next lecture.